## Basic Concepts

Starting a GenHTTP server instance will always require you to specify the handler
that is responsible to generate responses to client requests. Depending on the kind
of content you would like to serve (such as a website or a webservice), there are various
handlers already available to be used.

```csharp
Host.Create()
    .Handler(...)
    .Run();
```
Handlers are usually made available by an additional nuget module. You can find
the modules which are currently available [on nuget](https://www.nuget.org/profiles/Kaliumhexacyanoferrat).
To setup a project, you will usually reference the [GenHTTP.Core](https://www.nuget.org/packages/GenHTTP.Core/) 
package which includes the engine as well as basic elements for layouting and IO.
Additionally, you can choose from several [project templates](./templates)
which allow to create new projects for specific use cases within a couple of minutes.

If you would like to have full control over response generation, you can
implement a [custom handler](./handlers).

## Application Frameworks

- [Websites](./websites) (deprecated)<br />
  Allows you to serve a themed web application with basic features such as
  templating, theming, sitemaps, or robots instruction files.

- [Controllers (MVC)](./controllers)<br />
  Lightweight layer to write web applications that follow the MVC pattern.

- [Webservices](./webservices)<br />
  Provides REST based web services that can be consumed by clients to
  retrieve a JSON or XML serialized result.

- [Functional Handlers](./functional)<br />
  Allows to respond to HTTP requests in a functional manner, reducing
  the boiler code to be written.
  
- [Static Websites](./static-websites)<br />
  Allows to easily serve static web applications such as a Hugo site.

- [Single Page Applications (SPA)](./single-page-applications)<br />
  Allows to serve applications written with modern JS frameworks such as
  Vue.js, Angular or React.

## Concerns

- [Authentication](./authentication)<br />
  Restricts the content provided by a section to authenticated users.
  
- [Client Caching (Policy)](./client-caching-policy)<br />
  Instructs the client to cache generated responses for some time.
  
- [Client Caching (Validation)](./client-caching-validation)<br />
  Instructs the client to download files only if they have changed.

- [Compression](./compression)<br />
  Compresses responses generated by the server to save bandwidth.

- [CORS](./cors)<br />
  Policies to be respected by browsers accessing resources on the server.

- [Error Handling](./error-handling)<br />
  Generate custom HTTP responses for exceptions and missing content.
  
- [Minification](./minification) (deprecated)<br />
  Reduces the size of web resources such as JS, CSS or HTML files sent to the client by minifying them.

- [Server Caching](./server-caching)<br />
  Caches responses generated by the server to serve them faster the next time they are requested.

- [Range Support](./ranges)<br/>
  Enables partial responses if requested by the client.

- [Custom Concerns](./concerns)<br />
  Add behavior to all handlers within a section of your web application.
  
- [Defaults](./defaults)<br />
  Automatically configures your web server for performance and security.

## Providers

- [Layouting](./layouting)<br />
  Define the layout of your web application by dividing it into
  sections. 

- [Static Content](./static-content)<br />
  Serves resources stored in a directory or as embedded resources within an
  assembly to the client.
  
- [Combined Pages](./combined-pages) (deprecated)<br />
  Allows to assemble a web page from different kind of content.

- [Downloads](./downloads)<br />
  Provides a file to the client as a download. This could be a file from
  the file system or from somewhere else.

- [Redirects](./redirects)<br />
  Redirects the client to another location on the server or an
  external site.

## Infrastructure

- [Directory Browsing](./listing)<br />
  Provides a simple, recursive web view on a directory on the file system.

- [Reverse Proxies](./reverse-proxies)<br />
  Relays the request of the client to another server and returns
  the response fetched from there.

- [Virtual Hosts](./virtual-hosts)<br />
  Allows you to handle requests differently depending on the host specified
  by the client. This allows to serve multiple domains using a single
  server instance.

- [Load Balancer](./load-balancing)<br />
  Randomly distributes incoming requests to specified nodes to di   stribute the 
  resulting load to other systems.

## Misc

- [Resources](./resources)<br />
  An abstraction layer over file system capabilities to allow binary content
  to be fetched from any data source.
  
- [Caches](./caches)<br />
  Allow to store intermediate results to improve performance.

- [Serialization](./conversion)<br />
  Controls how input is deserialized and output is serialized.

- [Injection](./injection)<br />
  Allow to inject custom types into service methods.
- 
- [Results](./results)<br />
  Return structured data while adjusting the generated response.